I believe the convergence challenges come from having to update the cloud and move it significantly past the region it's initialized in. This means we want to look at a bunch of cases where the self-consistent cloud starts on the right/wrong side of the true RCB. We know the true RCB because of the Diamondback convergence history: [[wrong side of the RCB test]]. We have to start the cloud elsewhere by proxy - I'm imagining the following process over (Teff = (1100, 1600, 2200), grav = (316, 3160), fsed = (1, 8)) and we'll sweep it more finely later if required. (Possibly will need to add some deep cloud cases; I'll inspect the Diamondback opacity profiles relative to the true RCB later.)
- Initialize the temperature structure at the true Diamondback solution. If [[Diamondback eddysed to virga process journal]] syncs up, this shouldn't need to move at all.
- Look at which species has the highest opacity (at a single point, not integrated). 
- Use the condensation curve of this species to find the initial temperature guess that'd be required to place the cloud peak on the "equal and opposite" side of the RCB (uniform scaling down of the temperature structure to get this, we want a smooth initial guess); if you have a radiative cloud according to Diamondback we'll now start with a convective one, and vice versa.
- Do this self-consistent run. See if it converges and if it recovers the true solution.
- Do this again but with the temperature guess that's much further in the direction we know the cloud is.
For concreteness let's say the cloud is at layer $n_c$ and the RCB is at layer $n_b$. I'm suggesting I first write a function `temperature_guess_for_crossing(n)` that gives me a temperature structure such that the main condensation curve crossing is at layer $n$. Then run self-consistent models that use as our initial guess `temperature_guess_for_crossing` evaluated on $n_c$, $\min(n_c, n_b) - 5$ (definitely in the radiative zone; if $n_c$ is also radiative, expect this to be the nicer case) and $\max(n_c, n_b) + 5$ (definitely in the convective zone; if $n_c$ is also convective, expect this to be the nicer case.)
